Well, baptism weekend is a reminder that God is still seeking. He is still saving. He is still redeeming. And I would imagine there are people in your life that you are continuing to pray for and share with and hope that they'll make a decision to make Jesus the King and Lord of their life. And we hope that a weekend like this encourages you to stick with that. And maybe maybe you are the guest of someone this weekend to come and watch somebody get baptized or you just found your way to church this weekend for the first time in a while. Uh we hope that you find this conversation we're about to have this weekend helpful as a part of your journey in faith and in a relationship with God. You're at a great weekend because this weekend we're starting what we call message series or sermon series here at Grace where we take a handful of weekends and we dig out a concept or a thought or an idea or scripture. And so we're going to be doing that beginning with some stuff this weekend that is to be honest it's heavy. This is some pretty serious stuff. We need to be honest about it. We need to navigate it. we need to really wrestle with what does uh the Christian faith have to say around these issues. So, we're going to do our best to get into this and over the course of this weekend and two weekends following, here's what I expect. I expect those of us that are around, it's going to be helpful for your heart. But I also think it's going to be helpful for you to think about how to talk about people in your life who might be dealing with some of these same types of things. And so, welcome to everyone. Overflow room campuses, every single space. We're glad that you're with us. My name is Keith and let's get going this weekend. So, uh, a number of years ago, there was a a woman in a in her mid20s. I knew her parents pretty well and I knew her and she was in a relationship and the relationship seemed to be going well. Her and this guy were dating and every single time I talked to her parents or I would talk to her, things seemed to be going great. And so, uh, I hadn't seen them very often, but when I would see them, I would ask and it seemed like things were going good. Several months went by, didn't run into her parents, didn't run into her, and then I did run into her. And we were having kind of small talk. And then I said, "Hey, are you still in a relationship with that guy and and her countenance changed right away?" And she said, "I'm not." And I said, "Oh my goodness, what happened?" I mean, it seemed like things were great. And she said, "Keith, they were great." In fact, she said, "Keith, here's what you need to know. I really, really like this guy." And then she paused and she said, "No, I loved this guy." She said, "I loved this guy and was looking forward to a history with a future with him." But we were having a conversation and as we were having conversations we started talking about our future and I said I wanted children and he said he didn't want children and when he said he didn't want children I pressed on it. We kept having the conversation. She didn't use these words but basically what she said was it was a bridge too far. If he didn't want kids and I wanted kids what were we going to do? The relationship ended. And to be honest she was reflecting something that we reflect on a lot of different areas. sometimes serious areas, sometimes superficial areas, but it's this reality that comes to our mind and our heart sometimes. And it goes like this that if a certain thing is true, well then I'm just not interested in that thing anymore. If a certain thing is true, then I I guess I'm just not interested. Well, if it's true, you don't want to have any kids. Well, then I'm not interested in the relationship is done. And again, this manifests itself in a lot of different ways. You're like, man, that menu at that restaurant sounds great. I just saw the price point. If that's the price point, I'm not interested. You say, "I'd love to go watch that game. I'd love to see those two teams. That sounds like it's going to be a really competitive battle. Oh, it's an hour and a half away. I'm not interested." Maybe you had a friend on social media and then they posted something and you look and you start putting two and two together and you say, "Oh, if that's who you voted for, then unfriend I am no longer interested." Or maybe you hear about a job and you say, "This is going to be the best job and it's the job description you love and you're all in and the pay is great and then they tell you," but to have that job, you're going to have to work 60 hours a week. Well, now I'm not interested. Because if that's true, then I'm out. And this shows up again in a lot of different areas in our life, but but I think it also shows up in the area of faith. It shows up in the area of faith. It shows up with the Bible. It shows up with God. It shows up with the idea of Jesus where people are not interested in it for a variety of reasons. In fact, maybe some of you this weekend, you yourself or someone you love, the truth is as it relates to the things of God, you're just not interested. You might not even be able to put words to why, but you just don't care that much. You don't want to think about it. You're just not interested. Maybe for some of you, you're not interested because you heard something about God. And to be honest, it's not even true, but you heard it and you believed it and you internalized it. And so, you're out on God. Because if that's true, then you're not interested. For some of you, you're not interested in the things of God because you don't believe the Bible. I just can't believe this. I don't think it's real. I think it's put together by men. I don't really And so, you're like, you know what? If you guys are on this, then I'm out. For some of you, you're not interested in the things of God because a church hurt. You went to a church and someone you trusted did or said a thing to you or someone you love and you said, "I'm out on God and all things God because I'm not interested anymore." But it's been interesting over my years of being a Christian, over my years of being the pastor at Grace, I've found this interesting group of people that I think it's worth considering. I think there are some people that they're enough connected to the things of Jesus and the things of church or maybe even a church like this that they're like, "You know what, man? I've heard a lot of good arguments to trust the Bible. You've heard some archaeological things. You've heard about some stuff that's been dug up in the Middle East and it goes, man, it seems like they're proving some of those events that happened back then now." and and maybe you've heard conversations and arguments for the resurrection. And so you're like, "You know what, Keith? I'll read the Bible. I'll read the Bible." And then you read the Bible and you came to a place in the Bible where you said, "You know what? I see some things about that God in the Bible that I don't really like that God. If that's really God and that's really the God that the Bible teaches, then I'm out." In fact, maybe you would say it this way. You would say, "If the God of the Bible is the Christian God, I'm not interested." If the God of the Bible really is the Christian God, really is the one that you pray to, that people this weekend are celebrating, giving their life to, that are saying, "I've I've been bapt I'm baptized following that king." And you're like, "If that's really the God of the Bible, and that's really the Christian God, I'm not interested." Keith, I'll grant you the miraculous stuff, bro. Okay, here's what I'll say. Yep. They crossed that Red Sea. It was parted fine. There was some guy who lived in the belly of a fish for three days. Fine. God in the middle of a war like he stopped the sun for a little bit of time. Great. I'll even grant you the virgin birth Keith. But if the God is the God of the Bible has the character that I see in there, I'm out. I don't want that God. There's things that I see about him that I go, I can't be interested in that God. And that's what we want to deal with over this weekend and the next few weekends. What about these things that when we look at the God of the Bible and we go, "That is the character of the Bible. That is the truth of the God of the Bible. What am I supposed to do in light of the fact that that's what it says if there's things that I don't like or I don't want to believe?" So, we're going to consider one of those this weekend and two more over the next two weekends and we're going to process those out. You know, some of us will remember the idea of like logic trees that like if this then this. And what we're about to kind of talk about for a minute is built on a logic tree. In fact, what we're going to talk about this weekend is what in many circles is called the rock of atheism. It's called the rock of atheism because it's this particular issue that has kept many people from even being interested in God, believing in God, following God. And again, maybe this is where you will be and maybe it is where you know some people are. And it goes a little bit like this. When you read the Bible, you see that the Bible says that God is all good. That he's completely good. That his character, his nature is that he's good. The Bible also says he's not only completely good. The Bible also says that he is all powerful, which means he can do everything. He can do anything at all time in any place. So, he's all good and he's all powerful. But then as you read the Bible, you also see, wait a minute, the world that exists has evil. It has evil. It has injustice. It has pain. It has suffering. In fact, you even saw in the Bible where you're like, "I read that story in the book of Job and this guy who loved God and was doing everything God wanted him to do. The devil comes to him and he's like, "Hey, can we mess with your guy?" And God's like, "Go ahead, mess with him." And you're like, "Dude, if that is true, that the God of the Bible would let the devil mess with one of his kids, I'm out." Because why would an all powerful, all good God allow evil, allow suffering, allow injustice? Either he's not all good or he's not all powerful or he's just a figment of your all's imagination. And to be honest, there's a lot of really smart people that it's this thing that they said they cannot go any further. Albert Einstein when he was thinking through quantum physics he was having a conversation one time and he said hey as I look at creation and I look at the way things are put together he said God does not play dice and what he meant was there is no randomness to the way the universe is put together but he even though he saw created order and intelligent design he couldn't get to the God of the Bible because of the evil and suffering that he saw in the world same with Charles Darwin Charles Darwin as he was writing the origin of the species and was navigating what he was writing with evolution ution and all of these things. He was considering the way he saw the world. And he said, "I can't get to the idea of the God of the Bible because of the evil and injustice that I see in our culture, in our generation right now. There was a New Testament theologian in North Carolina, University of North Carolina, foremost leader in his field, a guy named Dr. Bart Irman. And Dr. Bart Irwin is now in that world, one of the foremost agnostics who's walked away from his faith." And when he says, "Why did I walk away from the God of the Bible?" He said, "There was too much human suffering for me to be able to explain." When you look at your life and when you look at the life of the world, you have seen it and you have felt it. From disease to disasters, from viruses to volcanoes, from hunger to hurricanes, you have looked and you have said, "This is not right." You You've stood in a slum and seen poverty that you can't even get your mind completely around. You've watched someone die that you didn't think should die. You saw a marriage get blown up by a man or a woman. You've seen corporate greed, the greed of institutions and individuals. And in all of this, you've said, "What the heck?" You've seen, if you're a Christian, the church be persecuted all around the world like it is right now in Nigeria. And you ask this question, and it's a fair question. Where is God? Where is God? Which by the way, this issue of injustice and problems of pain and suffering and heartache and all of this, this is not a new question to our generation. Every generation has had to answer this question. And not just every generation all go further. Every worldview has to answer this question. What does every worldview do about suffering and pain and struggle? And even in the Bible when you look at the people who were being honest and transparent and vulnerable, they articulated things like this. The prophet Habach in Habach 1:es 2:4, he said this, "How long Lord must I call for help? How long must I call but you do not listen or cry out to you violence but you do not save?" He continues in verses three and four and he says, "Why do you make me look at injustice? Why do you tolerate wrongdoing? Destruction and violence are before me. There is strife and conflict abounds. Therefore, the law is paralyzed and justice never prevails. The wicked him and the righteous so that justice is perverted. Habach looks around and he goes, "What the heck is going on?" And maybe for you or maybe for someone you love, the reason that you are not interested in the God of the Bible is this. Who wants a supposedly good God who allows bad stuff? Who wants a supposedly good God who allows bad stuff? Why doesn't he stop it? Why doesn't he deal with it? Why doesn't he just get rid of it? Is he not all good? Is he not all powerful? What is going on? Now, this particular question of why would a good God allow bad stuff has been something that has been written about, debated, argued over, pontificated literally as long as people have contemplated this question. But please look at me when I say this to you. I know for some of you this is not theory or a classroom exercise. You lost like your childhood sibling when they were 12 years old and you're like why? I don't understand it. You saw your mom or dad be unfaithful and just blow up your family and you don't know what to do with it. because of your gender or your skin color, you have had people say the most hateful, disgusting, vitriolic things to you and you're like, why? For some of you, you've served our country and you've been in war and you have seen such awful, grotesque things, you can't even talk about it and put sentences to it without it messing up what's going on in your mind and your heart. This isn't theory. This is reality. Keith, why is there evil? Why is there injustice? Why is there suffering? Why is there wrong if God is good? Now, what I'm about to say right now is going to sound crazy because I understand how heavy this particular moment is. But listen to me. I actually believe that the injustice, the pain, the suffering, the problem of evil, if you will, is not an argument against God, but rather an argument for God. And I'm going to do everything I can for a little bit to try to show you that I believe that's actually what you need to see and understand that this isn't something that should make us not interested in God. It should actually push us towards God. And as we do that, I hope that if you're a Christian, it will encourage you. If you're not a Christian who's been not interested, it will get you to consider the God of the Bible. If you have a Bible, turn on or turn to the book of Genesis, the first book in the Bible. We're going to land in Genesis chapter 2. Genesis chapter 2. And as we go to Genesis chapter 2, we're going to land there and we're going to pick up in a passage that we were in a few weekends ago where we were talking about uh the creation of man and woman and what does it look like. And I've told you before that it's so important to go back to the beginning and then see how things went wrong and understand those for what God is trying to do. So, Genesis chapter 2, there was a time when there was nothing but God. And then God made things. And when he made things, he made people. Now, for some of you, this is where you stop because you're like, "When did he make them? And how did he make them?" Stop. You don't even need to worry about that. You just need to know there was no God. There was nothing but God. And then God made everything. How and when he did it is irrelevant for this particular conversation. But he makes everything. And we're going to pick it up in Genesis chapter 2 where he's made Adam, which he calls Adam because he's breathed into the atom, the dust, and he's made him. And here's what he has. The Lord God, verse chapter 2, 15, the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work and take care of it. Now, for those of us that are Christians that believe the Bible, we don't think this is a moral tale. We think this is human history that God created the first person, Adam, and eventually Eve. And these people are of our great great great all the way. There are great par grandparents that we're connected to him that all humanity flows from them and that Adam and Eve were real human beings and Adam was put in this garden and he was created and he had perfect relationship with God, perfect shalom, perfect peace. He was enjoying all of creation and God said, "Get to work in the garden." And this was work, but it was incredible. This was like he had a green thumb. Miracle grow on everything. No weeds, no insects, nothing to stop what's going on. All the work is going great. He's enjoying it. He's enjoying his God. Everything is going well. The conditions are for him to seek God, enjoy God, and to be fulfilled in life. And so, he puts him in the garden to do the work. And then it says this, "And the Lord God commanded the man." So, he's going to tell him to do something after he told him to work. He told him, "You know what you can do? You're free to eat from any tree in the garden." So, in this paradise that he put Adam and in Adam in, there was trees everywhere. And he said, "Here's the deal. You can go to any of those trees. Any of those trees. You can eat as much as you want. Go crazy. has much had of a buffet. Go after them. Enjoy them. Do some work. Eat. Go enjoy the sunrise. Enjoy the sunset. Enjoy the water. Do everything you want. You can eat everything. You're free. Now, we think freedom means do whatever we want, whenever we want, however we want. That's not freedom. That's a recipe for chaos. But he says you're free to do whatever you want around these trees. And then this word is in verse two. But, and I actually think it's this word that is the reason the goodness of God is represented in this passage because he says, "Adam, you can eat from every tree in the garden." But, and he's going to put something in front of him. And what he's about to put in front of him, listen to me, this is important. It's this word that tells us that he didn't make Adam and Eve robots. He didn't make Adam and Eve people who just had to do whatever he's about to say. He's going to give them an option. And here's what he says. But you must not eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil. For when you eat of it, uh, you will certainly die. He says, you can eat from every single tree, but not that one. Why? Why? Why? It's just a tree, Keith. Why? Listen. Cuz you can't truly love someone if you don't have an opportunity not to love them. You can't obey if you don't have an opportunity not to obey. You can't worship if you don't have an opportunity not to worship. And here's what he was saying to them. I've created every condition for you to love me in this moment in history. There's nothing for them right now to go against God. There's no commercials. There's no social media. There's no temptation. There's no person walking by that's drawing them into anything else. It's just them and God. It's complete. It's perfect. And he says, "Here's the thing. But because I'm a good God, because I don't huff and puff and blow your house down and force you to worship me, you have to have an option not to worship me. In fact, just I've used this illustration before, but I think it makes the point. Imagine I was out in the lobby after service at one of the campuses and someone came up to me and they said, "Hey, Pastor Keith, I just want to tell you I love you. I'm grateful for you. I'm thankful for you." They gave me a big hug and they looked at me and they're like, "No, just seriously, I love you." And I'm like, "Is this is this cuz you forgot pastor appreciation month? You just want to honor me like right now? Is that what this is about?" And they're like, "No, no, no. Seriously, seriously, I love you. I just want to say I love you. Thank you." And then they walked away. And then I found out 15 minutes later from someone that that person was paid $500 to come do that. Suddenly there's not much worth to what they did. God says, "I'm a good God. I'm an all powerful God and I've created people and I've set everything up for you to worship me, but I'm not forcing anything." And so if you know the story after this, they create Eve. Eve and Adam hang out. They get married. They enjoy all the co-ed naked gardening. It's an incredible thing. Goes on for as long as it goes on. They do the thing. Genesis 3, snake shows up. Weird snake walking and talking. And we know the story. Tempts Adam and Eve. And then here's what happens in verse six of chapter 3. When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and she ate it. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her and he ate it. Now, this is where, like, if you're not a church person, you're not a Jesus person, you're not a Bible person, you're like, who cares? They ate food. They ate some fig or they ate some apple. What does it matter, Keith? What does it matter? It matters. Listen to me. Because all of human history changed in this moment because it was rebellion against God. It was rebellion against God. They were told, "Don't." They were told, "You can do everything else, have whatever you want, enjoy all that stuff." But in this moment, they said, "God, we don't trust you. We don't love you. We don't obey you. We don't need you. We're going to choose to do what we want." And they went against God. And here's what we've got to build on this weekend. And this is going to be hard for some of us to deal with. What this is telling us is that all of human history pivoted around this concept called sin. sin which is rebellion against God, rejection against God, making yourself king. And listen to me, God is not the author of sin. Humanity is. God is not the author of sin. Humanity is. In fact, the moment this happened, look what it says in the passage in verse 7. Then, in other words, this is indicating that things changed. And you might not think it's a big deal what changed, but none of this stuff that's about to be said in the verse existed before this. Suddenly it says this. Then when these two interacted, the eyes of both of them were open. Now they weren't walking around with their eyes closed previously, but suddenly they're looking at each other and like, "Huh? Are you judging me, boy? You too loud. You're not You're not quite as attractive as I thought yesterday, man. You can be impatient." Suddenly the perfect rhythm and shalom and peace that existed between the two of them, they started seeing each other in a way that was fresh of like, man, everything isn't good. In fact, look at what it says. And they realized they were naked. They felt shame. I'm not sure I trust you. I'm not sure I want you to know everything about me. I'm not sure I want God to know what I'm thinking. I'm Things changed because sin entered the world. In fact, and what do they do? They do what we all do when we violate God's character. They sewed fig leaves together and made a covering for themselves. They tried to hide. Everything in human history changed because of this moment. Like you need to understand this. Sin is the gateway to all the evil, all the injustice, all the pain, all the disgustingness, everything that you feel and sense. And it all happened from here. In fact, if you keep reading the story, God is so frustrated and violated by what went on. By the time you get to Genesis, by the end of ch Genesis chapter 3, he's kicked him out of the garden. And now we're off and running. And yet, I honestly think that this points to something we need to understand. I think it helps us understand something about what is going on because people want to make a case against God. And I actually think it's a case for God. And here's what I want to say to you as this change of sin introduces everything because I actually think it's flipped. And I'll say it this way. I think the problem of evil actually points to the goodness of God. I think the problem of evil actually points to the goodness of God. God created everything perfect. Complete intimacy, complete rhythm, complete access, complete connection, complete beauty, no sin, no problems. But he was not going to coersse them into worshiping him. They were going to have to choose. Guys, listen. As it exists, you only get three options as it relates to God creating people. Option number one, he doesn't create people. In case you're not very smart, that's bad for you. Okay? He doesn't create people. Option number two, he creates people, but he makes them robots. Now, I don't know about you, but I'm not sure you want to worship that God. I'm not sure you want that God, and I'm not sure that that God is a good God. But then you have option number three, which is he created it exactly the way that it is, which is that he drew us into his awesomeness and beauty and worship of him, but he didn't force it. Those are the only three doors you have. And he did choose to make us. And he did say, "I'm not going to make them robots." And in his goodness, he said, "I will do every single thing I can to draw them." and we chose to say in our choice no. Now what's also interesting in this conversation is that people say e they'll say words like evil and right and wrong and justice and injustice and I would love to just put pause on the conversation and ask this question. Where do those words come from? Who gets to decide that those words exist and are real? CS Lewis who was an atheist who went on a journey to basically say that Jesus wasn't real and gave his life to Jesus and began to be an author and a scholar. He one time I'm paraphrasing but he wrote something like this. He said you can't know that you have a crooked stick unless you have a straight stick. He said it's only the evidence of something that is straight that proves the evidence of something that is crooked. Where does the idea of evil and right and good and injustice come from? Listen to me friends. Simply put, evil is this. It's the corruption of what is good. And you can't have evil if you don't have good. And you can't have good if you don't have a standard. And you don't have a standard if you don't have God. It all goes back to him. Because you can say there's evil. Well, you can only have evil if there's good. And you can only have good if there's a straight thing. And the only straight thing that's always exists that determines all of it is God. Now, if you're someone that doesn't want to line up with the Bible, that's fine. But you have to ask your question, where do you get off calling anything right or wrong or that there's injustice or evil if there's no absolute standard? And is the standard simply up to your mind? And if that's the case, well then why are you mad that somebody else has a different standard? But ultimately, the scripture comes back and says, "No, no, no. God is the standard of and it's actually his goodness, his perfection, his holiness, his beauty, his greatness that point us to the fact when people are off. What I want to do is keep digging at this. I want to start at the top and then I want to move this into your lap personally as we understand that the problem of evil points to the goodness of God. And this first thought, I've been digging at it, but let me just make sure that I say it very clearly as it relates to the problem of evil. Let me say it to you this way. Man created it, but God allowed it. Man created it, but God allowed it. The Genesis narrative is telling us that God made everything great. That God is not the author. God is not the creator of evil. We must make sure we understand the story and talk about it right. I've learned uh that you can learn a lot about married couples when you listen to them tell stories to other people. A lot of times there's one storyteller between the husband and wife and a lot of times when one of you is the storyteller, the other is the professional corrector. So you start telling the story and here's what here's what happens. Like you start telling the story, whoever you are, the husband or wife, and like you're like, "It was Wednesday at 2." And they're like, "No, it wasn't. It was Tuesday at 3:30." Now just just this is free marital advice, nothing to do with the message. If your spouse is telling a story or your friend is telling the story and the detail they get wrong has nothing to do with the big part of the story, just be quiet. You don't need to correct them. It's fine. Okay? But sometimes someone's telling a part of the story and you're sitting there and you're like, "That is not true. That is not how the story goes." Like we didn't even have kids then. You know, we were on a break. Like that's that's not how this like some of you are like, "Oh, that Easter egg was good." If you follow that. Sometimes somebody's telling a part of the story and you're like, "That part of the story's why are you saying that?" That's a Listen, I listen to people when they talk about good, when they talk about evil, when they talk about justice, when they talk about injustice, and they tell the story of it. And they tell the story wrong. And what they'll do is they'll say, "I can't believe that is what God did." We should not ever be saying, "I can't believe that is what God did." We should over and over be saying, "I can't believe that's what Adam and Eve did. I can't believe that's what Adam and Eve did." They had every reason to love and trust and worship and follow and honor God. The issue in this story is not what God did. It's what we have done. And we need to make sure that we understand that God in his goodness allowed this to happen. He didn't just come and get all of us. But when you look back at every divorce, every lying, every greed, every hurricane, every abandonment, every abuse, the source and beginning of it is sin. And the source of sin is not God. It's humanity. And it actually points us back to the fact that we had the option to worship or not worship. To rebel or not rebel, to honor God or to not honor God, and that his standard is perfect. I'll say this and then I'll move on from this point. Guys, listen. We broke it. But God in his grace and mercy is doing everything he can to put it back together again. And the problem of evil continues to point to the goodness of God. Now, if you struggle with that, you're definitely going to struggle with number two because number two begins to move into your space. And here's what you and I need to understand. Number two, the problem of evil points to the goodness of God. Man created, God allowed. But number two, we contribute to the problem. We contribute to the problem. Every person listening to me or that will listen to this contributes to the problem. The Bible says that every human being has sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Every human being, every human being has contributed to evil, injustice, and pain and suffering that is a part of the world. You know when you go to a Buckeye game and you look down at South Stands and every so often at South Stands, they have that little area for Block O where they give the kids the little cards and then they're supposed to they yell something out and then they put them up and then they put them up and they're supposed to make, you know, block O or a name or a symbol or a number or whatever it is. Now, if you're sitting in a part of the stadium that's not there, you can look and you can say, "Well, those kids are idiots cuz that's the wrong card." Like, they put the wrong one up. You can tell. And then, but if you've ever sat in block and you've gotten the instructions, it happens all pretty quick. And it's pretty easy to tell if the person like three to the left or three to the right is getting it wrong. Sometimes it's hard for you to tell if you're getting it wrong based on what you're doing. And so quick. Why do I tell you that? Because I think we are experts at seeing the wrong evil and injustice in everyone else and not really good at seeing it in oursel. I think we are so good at seeing what everybody else does wrong without being willing to be honest about we've done. I'm not asking anyone to raise their hand or to confess anything right now. I'm not trying to beat you up. But here's the truth. Every person listening to me, I'm going to ask you a question. Have you ever lied? Have you ever cheated? You ever stolen? You ever been greedy? You ever looked at something on the internet that you know you shouldn't have looked at that your wife or husband wouldn't have been cool with? You ever had an opportunity to do good and you didn't do good? You ever chosen to be abusive to someone that you should have helped? You ever seen a person in need and walked away? You ever been impatient when you should have been patient? You ever not been kind? You ever spoke words of someone that weren't life-giving but actually took the soul right away from them? Have you ever been disrespectful? I could keep going, but here's the truth, guys. We have all contributed to the problem. If God wants to get rid of all the evil in the world, we all got to go. We all got to go. Ain't nobody listening to me that hasn't done something wrong at some point. And yet, here's why I would say the problem of evil points to the goodness of God. Because you didn't go. God woke you up today and he gave you mercy. He gave you grace. You are still here. He's not done with you. He's not finished with you. He still called you back in. And some of you are like, I don't I don't like what you're doing right now, Keith. You're you're call you're calling me evil, Keith. You're calling me cruel, Keith. Listen to me. I know those of you that are like, no, I'm not. No, I'm not. Here's what you do. You just find someone that's worse than you and you compare yourself to them. You just find the idiot in your family or the in your community and you're like, "I'm not as bad as them. I'm not Listen, the standard for comparison on your goodness is not them. It's God Almighty." And every single one of us falls short of that. Every single one of us has contributed to it. Guys, we have to be honest that when we wake up every single day, there is problems in the world. There is injustice in the world. There is disservice in the world. There is pain in the world. And I'll go and sometimes I'm the cause of it. And sometimes you're the cause of it. But the problem of evil points to the goodness of God because God doesn't just turn away and walk away from us. He continues to draw us near. Now, that's interesting that even though we're problematic, God did not remove us from this place just yet. He continues to be patient. and he's patient because he wants more and more people to know him and follow him and surrender to him. But here's the thing that I want to say sometimes about evil, about the various natural disasters or the diseases or the things that show up. Here's the third part that I would just call you that you have to be willing to do. Number three, you have to be willing to embrace mystery. Guys, I understand that this is not an emotionally satisfying answer sometimes. I understand that sometimes you look around and you're like, Keith, this is awful. You've stood in the slums and you've seen just the most heinous level of poverty. You did lose a parent to pancreatic cancer when you were just a teenager. You saw that marriage end. You saw that go on and you're like, I don't understand it. Guys, I've told you for 20 plus years that my life all in all has been pretty easy. All in all, my life's been pretty easy. I have two parents who are still alive who are still together in their marriage who loved me and fought for us. I have great siblings. I married a great woman. I have four great kids. I pastor a great church. I have so many things that my life has been pretty easy for. But I will say this, my life's not without moments of going. I don't understand. And I've shared this before with you guys. Some of you might wonder sometimes why there's such an age gap between Kaden and Kai, our oldest two, and then our 11-year-old twins. And the reason there's an age gap is because my wife went through a number of miscarriages. Both before Kaden, after Kaden, and between Kaia, then a bunch of them after Kaia, and then the twins, and so on. And there was a bunch of them. And we were in the hospital a lot of times. And I know what it's like to check into labor and delivery, to go have your wife deliver a baby at 19 weeks old that's dead, that you know is dead, and to hold that baby, and to name that baby, and to sit there and to get on an elevator and someone to see you with a labor and delivery sticker on your shirt and say, "Well, what what did you have today? Congratulations about the baby that was born." I know what that's like, and I know you don't always understand, but listen to me. When you follow the God of the Bible, it's a lot like when you used to lay down at grandma's house and look up at her crossstitching. She's sitting in the chair she's always in and she's crossstitching away underneath it. It looks like grandma's had too much to drink. It doesn't look real good. But I'm telling you what, when you stand up and you get over that thing and you see it, it looks like grandma knows what the heck she's doing. Guys, we sit on the side of eternity right now where we do not always understand what God is doing. But there will be a day where we will see it and we'll go, "Oh, that made sense. I get it." And between now and then, we are to trust and we are to walk by faith and to be reminded that the Bible says this, that God works for the good for all those who love him and are called to his purpose. And even in the middle of evil and suffering and pain and injustice that you see, you have to back up and go, "My my God still sits on the throne. He is still king." In fact, listen to me and you know this. You know this that some of the worst things you can try to do in that season is to fight for the why. You're not going to get a why. And even if you got a why, you wouldn't understand the why. You know why you wouldn't understand the why? Because your ways are not his ways. Because your thoughts are not his thoughts. Cuz your timing is not his timing. And your plans are not his plans. Furthermore, here's why I'll tell you the problem of evil points to the goodness of God. And you know this. Some of the best work God has done in your life is when the biggest crap was hitting your life. You learned way more about how to be graceful to other people when people weren't giving you grace. You learned way more about how to be generous to people when you needed generosity and people didn't give it to you. You learned way more about how to love people through the betrayal of someone who didn't do that to you. Listen, sometimes the greatest testimony you are going to ever have is through the evil and suffering and injustice that God puts you through in your life. And that's because the God of the Bible, even in the problem of evil in the world, is still doing good in your life. But you got to embrace the mystery. You're not always going to know why. And you're not always going to understand. You're not always going to get it. And it's not always going to make sense. And you can't just stop me in the lobby and in 4 seconds I can explain it because I can't. But you got to back up and go, God is still doing what he's doing. Number four, in the midst of all of this, both when other people are experiencing it and you're experiencing it, number four, you have to draw near to God. You have to draw near to God. God is a good God and he moves towards us. In fact, it says, "Draw near to him and he will draw near to you." Amidst everything that goes on, other people's pain and suffering and ours, we need to draw near. I love this time of the year in Ohio. I love being able to put jeans on and a hoodie and go on a walk on a crisp day. I love being able to have a fire in your backyard, sit by that fire, get a little distance from that fire, and then get near it and it warms your bones and warms your hands up just a little bit. Making the s'more, getting the marshmallow going. I love all that. And I love the idea that you can be a little bit cold and it can be a little bit crisp and then you can draw near the fire and it will do what it's designed to do. But you can't get the effects of the fire if you don't draw near it. God has created you to draw near him, to experience what he has for you. But you got to draw near. So maybe you need to draw near because your own sin is so significant that you need to go, you know what, God, I need forgiveness of your sins. Maybe you need to draw near in repentance. Maybe you need to draw near and just trust the sovereignty of God. Maybe you need to draw near because it'll make you more gentle with someone else who's experiencing pain. Maybe you need to draw near because it'll lead you to pray for them. Maybe it'll draw you need to draw near because it'll stir righteous anger in you that is appropriate. And maybe you'll draw near because it'll lead you to help the people that are in need. Whatever the case, you need to draw near. Now, some of you may be thinking, "Well, Keith, I guess the reason bad stuff happens is because we're all bad people, so eventually it just comes around." But if that's the case, you didn't read the whole Bible. Cuz I know a perfect guy that a lot of bad stuff happened to him. Jesus did never do anything wrong. And he got spat on. He got beat up. He got punched. He got a crown of thorns on his head. Heck, they killed him. And he did nothing wrong. Everything he did was right. But that actually encourages me because that problem of evil still points to the goodness of God because it tells me when I'm being betrayed, when I'm being spit on, when I'm struggling, when people are walking away from me, I have a king who can sympathize cuz he walked through everything we walk through. He's not distant on the clouds. He's able to relate with what you're dealing with. I would never tell you injustice and pain and evil and suffering are not real. I would say they are absolutely real. And yet, they're not reasons not to be interested in God. I actually think they should drive you to being interested in God. You know, when I think about what this means for us, I want to just personally, if you're a Christian, you're not a Christian, I'm not talking to you in the next couple minutes. But if you're a Christian, I'm talking to you. I want to invite you to think about this as it relates to your life and suffering and injustice and call you to do two things. And the two things that I want to call you to are this right here. I want you to repent from and run to. I want you to repent from the evil in your life, the injustice that you're causing, the pain and suffering that you're inflicting upon others. I want you to repent from those things and then I want you to run to God and his truth and his goodness and his love. I want you to run to the right things. I want you to hate what is evil and cling to what is good. I want you to do good. I want you to repent from the stuff you should and run to the stuff that you ultimately should as well. Now, with that in mind, I I think it's really important that I remind us of this. You know, in this conversation, you are 100% right that we sit in a place where terrible things happen. But I also think I would be remiss if I didn't land the plane by reminding us all of this, guys. In the end, here's the truth. If you read the whole book and it tells us this, that in the end, evil loses and God wins. That in the end, evil loses and God wins. I've read the whole story. I know how the end of the story goes. And I know it doesn't feel like it right now. But even in Genesis 3, when everything hit the fan and everything blew up in the garden, Genesis 3 21, God went into the garden, took some animals, took their skins, and covered up Adam and Eve and said, "I'm going to begin through blood sacrifice to make this right." Fast forward many millennia, and he sends Jesus, born of a virgin, lives a perfect life, dies on a cross, takes all the sin of all humanity upon him, is put in a grave, but doesn't stay there. overcomes death and the devil and sin and hell and all of it and wins. And now we sit here in a time where yes, the devil is at work. But know this, he is on a leash and it is a short time and he is coming back. The Bible is so clear. The Bible is so clear that the the problem of evil for the Christian is a temporary problem because a day is coming with no more pain, no more suffering, no more disease, no more tornadoes, no more cancer, no more abandonment, no more adultery, no more greed. In Christ Jesus, it is there. You know, there are uh times over the last handful of years where I've I've DVR a a sports game I want to watch and one of my favorite teams is playing and people aren't trying to like ruin it. But sometimes people will come up to me and they'll be like, "Can you believe we won?" I'm like, "I hate you. You just ruined my day." You know, or you're going to, you know, the Browns lost. I know they lost, but I want to see how we lost this time. I want to see what we did. But sometimes I'll be watching a game and my favorite team is going to win and I I know the outcome, but I'll sit there with this weird battle because I like I'm like, "How'd they get that first down?" And I'm mad. The other team, oh my gosh, they just scored. They interception penalty. What are we going to do? And I'll have like this angst. And sometimes like the other team will be set up to win the game-winning field goal. And I'll be on my couch going, "Oh my gosh, oh my gosh." And then I have to stop and tell myself, I already know the outcome. I already know the outcome. What am I freaking out about? I know the outcome. What am I freaking out about? I know it is painful in the moment. I know it is difficult in the moment. I know it is real. But in the end, evil loses and God wins. There's a day coming every knee will bow, every tongue will confess. Jesus will sit as king. He will reign. And the question between now and then is not is that going to happen. It's what do you individually choose to do with it? And I get it. Real problems, real problems, real evil where real suffering. And it may make you not interested in God. I think it should do the exact opposite. I think should make you so interested in the real God who sent his son to die for you that you should embrace the name of Jesus and give your life to it. Guys, that Jesus is still the same Jesus who restores marriages, who fixes addictions, who cures people's illnesses, and ultimately saves people from hell. Let me pray for us. Father, I'm I'm not only not smart enough, I don't even have the the brain thoughts to understand why any and every person would be here this weekend. But I also know it's not an accident that no matter who they are and what their background is and what they brought to a church with them this weekend or online with them, I I pray God that they would sense and know the realness of a God who sent his own son to die for them. That they would surrender to that Jesus. They would live in light of that Jesus. And they would even look at the chaos in the world and know that God did not create it. He's allowing it, but someday it's going to go away. And there's victory in him. [Music] Oh, death, where is your sting? You do change things and we believe it, Jesus. We pray this all in your name. Amen.